<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	
	<title>Second Section • Perpetual Peace</title>
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../style/style.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" class="section">
<h2>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="ordinal">Second</span>
		<span epub:type="label">Section</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">Containing the definitive articles for perpetual peace among states</span>
</h2>
<section id="introduction" epub:type="introduction">
<p>
	A state of peace among men who live side by side is not the natural state (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">status naturalis</i>), which is rather to be described as a state of war: that is to say, although there is not perhaps always actual open hostility, yet there is a constant threatening that an outbreak may occur.
	Thus the state of peace must be <em>established</em>.
	For the mere cessation of hostilities is no guarantee of continued peaceful relations, and unless this guarantee is given by every individual to his neighbour—which can only be done in a state of society regulated by law—one man is at liberty to challenge another and treat him as an enemy.<a id="fn3-ref" href="#fn3" epub:type="noteref">3</a>
</p>
<aside id="fn3" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 3</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn3-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>3</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		It is usually accepted that a man may not take hostile steps against any one, unless the latter has already injured him by act.
		This is quite accurate, if both are citizens of a law-governed state.
		For, in becoming a member of this community, each gives the other the security he demands against injury, by means of the supreme authority exercising control over them both.
		The individual, however, (or nation) who remains in a mere state of nature deprives me of this security and does me injury, by mere proximity.
		There is perhaps no active (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">facto</i>) molestation, but there is a state of lawlessness (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">status injustus</i>) which, by its very existence, offers acontinual menace to me.
		I can therefore compel him, either to enter into relations with me under which we are both subject to law, or to withdraw from my neighbourhood.
		So that the postulate upon which the following articles are based is:—“All men who have the power to exert a mutual influence upon one another must be under a civil government of some kind.”
	</p>
	<p>
		A legal constitution is, according to the nature of the individuals who compose the state:—
	</p>
	<ol class="decimal-parentheses">
		<li>A constitution formed in accordance with the right of citizenship of the individuals who constitute a nation (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">jus civitatus</i>).</li>
		<li>A constitution whose principle is international law which determines the relations of states (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">jus gentium</i>).</li>
		<li>A constitution formed in accordance with cosmopolitan law, in as far as individuals and states, standing in an external relation of mutual reaction, may be regarded as citizens of one world-state (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">jus cosmopoliticum</i>).</li>
	</ol>
	<p>
		This classification is not an arbitrary one, but is necessary with reference to the idea of perpetual peace.
		For, if even one of these units of society were in a position physically to influence another, while yet remaining a member of a primitive order of society, then a state of war would be joined with these primitive conditions; and from this it is our present purpose to free ourselves.
	</p>
</aside>
</section>
<section id="article-1" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="subtitle">First definitive article of perpetual peace</span><span class="text">: </span>
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">Ⅰ</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">The civil constitution of each state shall be republican</span>
</h3>
<p>
	The only constitution which has its origin in the idea of the original contract, upon which the lawful legislation of every nation must be based, is the republican.<a id="fn4-ref" href="#fn4" epub:type="noteref">4</a>
	It is a constitution, in the first place, founded in accordance with the principle of the freedom of the members of society as human beings; secondly, in accordance with the principle of the dependence of all, as subjects, on a common legislation; and, thirdly, in accordance with the law of the equality of the members as citizens.
	It is then, looking at the question of right, the only constitution whose fundamental principles lie at the basis of every form of civil constitution.
	And the only question for us now is, whether it is also the one constitution which can lead to perpetual peace.
</p>
<aside id="fn4" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 4</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn4-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>4</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		Lawful, that is to say, external freedom cannot be defined, as it so often is, as the right [<i lang="de" xml:lang="de">Befugniss</i>] “to do whatever one likes, so long as this does not wrong anyone else.”
		For what is this right?
		It is the possibility of actions which do not lead to the injury of others.
		So the explanation of a “right” would be something like this :—“Freedom is the possibility of actions which do not injure anyone.
		A man does not wrong another—whatever his action—if he does not wrong another”: which is empty tautology.
		My external (lawful) freedom is rather to be explained in this way: it is the right through which I require not to obey any external laws except those to which I could have given my consent.
		In exactly the same way, external (legal) equality in a state is that relation of the subjects in consequence of which no individual can legally bind or oblige another to anything, without at the same time submitting himself to the law which ensures that he can, in his turn, be bound and obliged in like manner by this other.
	</p>
	<p>
		The principle of lawful independence requires no explanation, as it is involved in the general concept of a constitution.
		The validity of this hereditary and inalienable right, which belongs of necessity to mankind, is affirmed and ennobled by the principle of a lawful relation between man himself and higher beings, if indeed he believes in such beings.
		This is so, because he thinks of himself, in accordance with these very principles, as a citizen of a transcendental world as well as of the world of sense.
		For, as far as my freedom goes, I am bound by no obligation even with regard to Divine Laws—which are apprehended by me only through my reason—except in so far as I could have given my consent to them; for it is through the law of freedom of my own reason that I first form for myself a concept of a Divine Will.
		As for the principle of equality, in so far as it applies to the most sublime being in the universe next to God—a being I might perhaps figure to myself as a mighty emanation of the Divine spirit,—there is no reason why, if I perform my duty in the sphere in which I am placed, as that aeon does in his, the duty of obedience alone should fall to my share, the right to command to him.
		That this principle of equality, (unlike the principle of freedom), does not apply to our relation to God is due to the fact that, to this Being alone, the idea of duty does not belong.
	</p>
	<p>
		As for the right to equality which belongs to all citizens as subjects, the solution of the problem of the admissibility of an hereditary nobility hinges on the following question:—“Does social rank—acknowledged by the state to be higher in the case of one subject than another—stand above desert, or does merit take precedence of social standing?”
		Now it is obvious that, if high position is combined with good family, it is quite uncertain whether merit, that is to say, skill and fidelity in office, will follow as well.
		This mounts to granting the favoured individual a commanding position without any question of desert; and to that, the universal will of the people—expressed in an original contract which is the fundamental principle of all right—would never consent.
		For it does not follow that a nobleman is a man of noble character.
		In the case of the official nobility, as one might term the rank of higher magistracy—which one must acquire by merit—the social position is not attached like property to the person but to his office, and equality is not thereby disturbed; for, if a man gives up office, he lays down with it his official rank and falls back into the rank of his fellows.
	</p>
</aside>
<p>
	Now the republican constitution apart from the soundness of its origin, since it arose from the pure source of the concept of right, has also the prospect of attaining the desired result, namely, perpetual peace.
	And the reason is this.
	If, as must be so under this constitution, the consent of the subjects is required to determine whether there shall be war or not, nothing is more natural than that they should weigh the matter well, before undertaking such a bad business.
	For in decreeing war, they would of necessity be resolving to bring down the miseries of war upon their country.
	This implies: they must fight themselves; they must hand over the costs of the war out of their own property; they must do their poor best to make good the devastation which it leaves behind; and finally, as a crowning ill, they have to accept a burden of debt which will embitter even peace itself, and which they can never pay off on account of the new wars which are always impending.
	On the other hand, in a government where the subject is not a citizen holding a vote, (<abbr lang="la" xml:lang="la">i.e.</abbr> in a constitution which is not republican), the plunging into war is the least serious thing in the world.
	For the ruler is not a citizen, but the owner of the state, and does not lose a whit by the war, while he goes on enjoying the delights of his table or sport, or of his pleasure palaces and gala days.
	He can therefore decide on war for the most trifling reasons, as if it were a kind of pleasure party.
	Any justification of it that is necessary for the sake of decency he can leave without concern to the diplomatic corps who are always only too ready with their services.
</p>
<hr/>
<p>
	The following remarks must be made in order that we may not fall into the common error of confusing the republican with the democratic constitution.
	The forms of the state (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">civitas</i>) may be classified according to either of two principles of division:—the difference of the persons who hold the supreme authority in the state, and the manner in which the people are governed by their ruler whoever he may be.
	The first is properly called the form of sovereignty (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">forma imperii</i>), and there can be only three constitutions differing in this respect: where, namely, the supreme authority belongs to only one, to several individuals working together, or to the whole people constituting the civil society.
	Thus we have autocracy or the sovereignty of a monarch, aristocracy or the sovereignty of the nobility, and democracy or the sovereignty of the people.
	The second principle of division is the form of government (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">forma regiminis</i>), and refers to the way in which the state makes use of its supreme power: for the manner of government is based on the constitution, itself the act of that universal will which transforms a multitude into a nation.
	In this respect the form of government is either republican or despotic.
	Republicanism is the political principle of severing the executive power of the government from the legislature.
	Despotism is that principle in pursuance of which the state arbitrarily puts into effect laws which it has itself made: consequently it is the administration of the public will, but this is identical with the private will of the ruler.
	Of these three forms of a state, democracy, in the proper sense of the word, is of necessity despotism, because it establishes an executive power, since all decree regarding—and, if need be, against—any individual who dissents from them.
	Therefore the “whole people”, so-called, who carry their measure are really not all, but only a majority: so that here the universal will is in contradiction with itself and with the principle of freedom.
</p>
<p>
	Every form of government in fact which is not representative is really no true constitution at all, because a law-giver may no more be, in one and the same person, the administrator of his own will, than the universal major premise of a syllogism may be, at the same time, the subsumption under itself of the particulars contained in the minor premise.
	And, although the other two constitutions, autocracy and aristocracy, are always defective in so far as they leave the way open for such a form of government, yet there is at least always a possibility in these cases, that they may take the form of a government in accordance with the spirit of a representative system.
	Thus Frederick the Great used at least to <em>say</em> that he was <q>merely the highest servant of the state</q>.<a id="fn5-ref" href="#fn5" epub:type="noteref">5</a>
	The democratic constitution, on the other hand, makes this impossible, because under such a government every one wishes to be master.
	We may therefore say that the smaller the staff of the executive—that is to say, the number of rulers—and the more real, on the other hand, their representation of the people, so much the more is the government of the state in accordance with a possible republicanism; and it may hope by gradual reforms to raise itself to that standard.
	For this reason, it is more difficult under an aristocracy than under a monarchy—while under a democracy it is impossible except by a violent revolution—to attain to this, the one perfectly lawful constitution.
	The kind of government, however,<a id="fn6-ref" href="#fn6" epub:type="noteref">6</a> is of infinitely more importance to the people than the kind of constitution, although the greater or less aptitude of a people for this ideal greatly depends upon such external form.
	The form of government, however, if it is to be in accordance with the idea of right, must embody the representative system in which alone a republican form of administration is possible and without which it is despotic and violent, be the constitution what it may.
	None of the ancient so-called republics were aware of this, and they necessarily slipped into absolute despotism which, of all despotisms, is most endurable under the sovereignty of one individual.
</p>
<aside id="fn5" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 5</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn5-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>5</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		The lofty appellations which are often given to a ruler—such as the Lord’s Anointed, the Administrator of the Divine Will upon earth and Vicar of God—have been many times censured as flattery gross enough to make one giddy.
		But it seems to me without cause.
		Far from making a prince arrogant, names like these must rather make him humble at heart, if he has any intelligence—which we take for granted he has—and reflects that he has undertaken an office which is too great for any human being.
		For, indeed, it is the holiest which God has on earth—namely, the right of ruling mankind: and he must ever live in fear of injuring this treasure of God in some respect or other.
	</p>
</aside>
<aside id="fn6" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 6</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn6-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>6</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		Mallet du Pan boasts in his seemingly brilliant but shallow and superficial language that, after many years experience, he has come at last to be convinced of the truth of the well known saying of Pope [<i>Essay on Man</i>, ⅠⅠⅠ. 303]:—
	</p>
	<blockquote>For Forms of Government let fools contest;<br/>
		Whate’er is best administered is best.</blockquote>
	<p class="no-indent">
		If this means that the best administered government is best administered, then, in Swift’s phrase, he has cracked a nut to find a worm in it.
		If it means, however, that the best conducted government is also the best kind of government,—that is, the best form of political constitution,—then it is utterly false: for examples of wise administration are no proof of the kind of government.
		Who ever ruled better than Titus and Marcus Aurelius, and yet the one left Domitian, the other Commodus, as his successor?
		This could not have happened where the constitution was a good one, for their absolute unfitness for the position was early enough known, and the power of the emperor was sufficiently great to exclude them.
	</p>
</aside>
</section>
<section id="article-2" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="subtitle">Second definitive article of perpetual peace</span><span class="text">: </span>
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">ⅠⅠ</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">The law of nations shall be founded on a federation of free states</span>
</h3>
<p>
	Nations, as states, may be judged like individuals who, living in the natural state of society—that is to say, uncontrolled by external law—injure one another through their very proximity.
	Every state, for the sake of its own security, may—and ought to—demand that its neighbour should submit itself to conditions, similar to those of the civil society where the right of every individual is guaranteed.
	This would give rise to a federation of nations which, however, would not have to be a State of nations.
	That would involve a contradiction.
	For the term “state” implies the relation of one who rules to those who obey—that is to say, of lawgiver to the subject people: and many nations in one state would constitute only one nation, which contradicts our hypothesis, since here we have to consider the right of one nation against another, in so far as they are so many separate states and are not to be fused into one.
</p>
<p>
	
	The attachment of savages to their lawless liberty, the fact that they would rather be at hopeless variance with one another than submit themselves to a legal authority constituted by themselves, that they therefore prefer their senseless freedom to a reason-governed liberty, is regarded by us with profound contempt as barbarism and uncivilization and the brutal degradation of humanity.
	So one would think that civilized races, each formed into a state by itself, must come out of such an abandoned condition as soon as they possibly can.
	On the contrary, however, every state thinks rather that its majesty (the “majesty” of a people is an absurd expression) lies just in the very fact that it is subject to no external legal authority: and the glory of the ruler consists in this, that, without his requiring to expose himself to danger, thousands stand at his command ready to let themselves be sacrificed for a matter of no concern to them.<a id="fn7-ref" href="#fn7" epub:type="noteref">7</a>
	The difference between the savages of Europe and those of America lies chiefly in this, that, while many tribes of the latter have been entirely devoured by their enemies, Europeans know a better way of using the vanquished than by eating them; and they prefer to increase through them the number of their subjects, and so the number of instruments at their command for still more widely spread war.
</p>
<aside id="fn7" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 7</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn7-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>7</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		A Greek Emperor who magnanimously volunteered to settle by a duel his quarrel with a Bulgarian Prince, got the following answer:—“A smith who has tongs will not pluck the glowing iron from the lire with his hands.”
	</p>
</aside>
<p>
	The depravity of human nature shows itself without disguise in the unrestrained relations of nations to each other, while in the law-governed civil state much of this is hidden by the check of government.
	This being so, it is astonishing that the word “right” has not yet been entirely banished from the politics of war as pedantic, and that no state has yet ventured to publicly advocate this point of view.
	For Hugo Grotius, Puffendorf, Vattel and others—Job’s comforters, all of them—are always quoted in good faith to justify an attack, although their codes, whether couched in philosophical or diplomatic terms, have not—nor can have—the slightest legal force, because states, as such, are under no common external authority; and there is no instance of a state having ever been moved by argument to desist from its purpose, even when this was backed up by the testimony of such great men.
	This homage which every state renders—in words at least—to the idea of right, proves that, although it may be slumbering, there is, notwithstanding, to be found in man a still higher natural moral capacity by the aid of which he will in time gain the mastery over the evil principle in his nature, the existence of which he is unable to deny.
	And he hopes the same of others; for otherwise the word “right” would never be uttered by states who wish to wage war, unless to deride it like the Gallic Prince who declared:—“The privilege which nature gives the strong is that the weak must obey them.”
</p>
<p>
	The method by which states prosecute their rights can never be by process of law—as it is where there is an external tribunal—but only by war.
	Through this means, however, and its favourable issue, victory, the question of right is never decided.
	A treaty of peace makes, it may be, an end to the war of the moment, but not to the conditions of war which at any time may afford a new pretext for opening hostilities; and this we cannot exactly condemn as unjust, because under these conditions everyone is his own judge.
	Notwithstanding, not quite the same rule applies to states according to the law of nations as holds good of individuals in a lawless condition according to the law of nature, namely, “that they ought to advance out of this condition.”
	This is so, because, as states, they have already within themselves a legal constitution, and have therefore advanced beyond the stage at which others, in accordance with their ideas of right, can force them to come under a wider legal constitution.
	Meanwhile, however, reason, from her throne of the supreme law-giving moral power, absolutely condemns war as a lawful proceeding, and makes a state of peace, on the other hand, an immediate duty.
	Without a compact between the nations, however, this state of peace cannot be established or assured.
	Hence there must be an alliance of a particular kind which we may call a covenant of peace (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">foedus pacificum</i>), which would differ from a treaty of peace (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">pactum pacis</i>) in this respect, that the latter merely puts an end to one war, while the former would seek to put an end to war for ever.
	This alliance does not aim at the gain of any power whatsoever of the state, but merely at the preservation and security of the freedom of the state for itself and of other allied states at the same time.
	The latter do not, however, require, for this reason, to submit themselves like individuals in the state of nature to public laws and coercion.
	The practicability or objective reality of this idea of federation which is to extend gradually over all states and so lead to perpetual peace can be shown.
	For, if Fortune ordains that a powerful and enlightened people should form a republic,—which by its very nature is inclined to perpetual peace—this would serve as a centre of federal union for other states wishing to join, and thus secure conditions of freedom among the states in accordance with the idea of the law of nations.
	Gradually, through different unions of this kind, the federation would extend further and further.
</p>
<p>
	It is quite comprehensible that a people should say:—“There shall be no war among us, for we shall form ourselves into a state, that is to say, constitute for ourselves a supreme legislative, administrative and judicial power which will settle our disputes peaceably.”
	But if this state says:—“There shall be no war between me and other states, although I recognize no supreme law-giving power which will secure me my rights and whose rights I will guarantee;” then it is not at all clear upon what grounds I could base my confidence in my right, unless it were the substitute for that compact on which civil society is based—namely, free federation which reason must necessarily connect with the idea of the law of nations, if indeed any meaning is to be left in that concept at all.
</p>
<p>
	There is no intelligible meaning in the idea of the law of nations as giving a right to make war; for that must be a right to decide what is just, not in accordance with universal, external laws limiting the freedom of each individual, but by means of one-sided maxims applied by force.
	We must then understand by this that men of such ways of thinking are quite justly served, when they destroy one another, and thus find perpetual peace in the wide grave which covers all the abominations of acts of violence as well as the authors of such deeds.
	For states, in their relation to one another, there can be, according to reason, no other way of advancing from that lawless condition which unceasing war implies, than by giving up their savage lawless freedom, just as individual men have done, and yielding to the coercion of public laws.
	Thus they can form a State of nations (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">civitas gentium</i>), one, too, which will be ever increasing and would finally embrace all the peoples of the earth.
	States, however, in accordance with their understanding of the law of nations, by no means desire this, and therefore reject <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">in hypothesi</i> what is correct <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">in thesi</i>.
	Hence, instead of the positive idea of a world-republic, if all is not to be lost, only the negative substitute for it, a federation averting war, maintaining its ground and ever extending over the world may stop the current of this tendency to war and shrinking from the control of law.
	But even then there will be a constant danger that this propensity may break out.<a id="fn8-ref" href="#fn8" epub:type="noteref">8</a>
	<q lang="la" xml:lang="la">Furor impius intus—fremit horridus ore cruento.</q>
	(Virgil.)
</p>
<aside id="fn8" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 8</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn8-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>8</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		On the conclusion of peace at the end of a war, it might not be unseemly for a nation to appoint a day of humiliation, after the festival of thanksgiving, on which to invoke the mercy of Heaven for the terrible sin which the human race are guilty of, in their continued unwillingness to submit (in their relations with other states) to a law-governed constitution, preferring rather in the pride of their independence to use the barbarous method of war, which after all does not really settle what is wanted, namely, the right of each state in a quarrel.
		The feasts of thanksgiving during a war for a victorious battle, the hymns which are sung—to use the Jewish expression—“to the Lord of Hosts” are not in less strong contrast to the ethical ides of a father of mankind; for, apart from the indifference these customs show to the way in which nations seek to establish their rights—sad enough as it is—these rejoicings bring in an element of exultation that a great number of lives, or at least the happiness of many, has been destroyed.
	</p>
</aside>
</section>
<section id="article-3" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="subtitle">Third definitive article of perpetual peace</span><span class="text">: </span>
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">ⅠⅠⅠ</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">The rights of men, as citizens of the world, shall be limited to the conditions of universal hospitality</span>
</h3>
<p>
	We are speaking here, as in the previous articles, not of philanthropy, but of right; and in this sphere hospitality signifies the claim of a stranger entering foreign territory to be treated by its owner without hostility.
	The latter may send him away again, if this can be done without causing his death; but, so long as he conducts himself peaceably, he must not be treated as an enemy.
	It is not a right to be treated as a guest to which the stranger can lay claim—a special friendly compact on his behalf would be required to make him for a given time an actual inmate—but he has a right of visitation.
	This right to present themselves to society belongs to all mankind in virtue of our common right of possession on the surface of the earth on which, as it is a globe, we cannot be infinitely scattered, and must in the end reconcile ourselves to existence side by side: at the same time, originally no one individual had more right than another to live in any one particular spot.
	Uninhabitable portions of the surface, ocean and desert, split up the human community, but in such a way that ships and camels—"the ship of the desert "—make it possible for men to come into touch with one another across these unappropriated regions and to take advantage of our common claim to the face of the earth with a view to a possible intercommunication.
	The inhospitality of the inhabitants of certain sea coasts—as, for example, the coast of Barbary—in plundering ships in neighbouring seas or making slaves of shipwrecked mariners; or the behaviour of the Arab Bedouins in the deserts, who think that proximity to nomadic tribes constitutes a right to rob, is thus contrary to the law of nature.
	This right to hospitality, however—that is to say, the privilege of strangers arriving on foreign soil—does not amount to more than what is implied in a permission to make an attempt at intercourse with the original inhabitants.
	In this way far distant territories may enter into peaceful relations with one another.
	These relations may at last come under the public control of law, and thus the human race may be brought nearer the realization of a cosmopolitan constitution.
</p>
<p>
	Let us look now, for the sake of comparison, at the inhospitable behaviour of the civilized nations, especially the commercial states of our continent.
	The injustice which they exhibit on visiting foreign lands and races—this being equivalent in their eyes to conquest—is such as to fill us with horror.
	America, the negro countries, the Spice Islands, the Cape <abbr>etc.</abbr> were, on being discovered, looked upon as countries which belonged to nobody; for the native inhabitants were reckoned as nothing.
	In Hindustani under the pretext of intending to establish merely commercial depots, the Europeans introduced foreign troops; and, as a result, the different states of Hindustan were stirred up to far-spreading wars.
	Oppression of the natives followed, famine, insurrection, perfidy and all the rest of the litany of evils which can afflict mankind.
</p>
<p>
	China and Japan (Nipon) which had made an attempt at receiving guests of this kind, have now taken a prudent step.
	Only to a single European people, the Dutch, has China given the right of access to her shores (but not of entrance into the country), while Japan has granted both these concessions; but at the same time they exclude the Dutch who enter, as if they were prisoners, from social intercourse with the inhabitants.
	The worst, or from the standpoint of ethical judgement the best, of all this is that no satisfaction is derived from all this violence, that all these trading companies stand on the verge of ruin, that the Sugar Islands, that seat of the most horrible and deliberate slavery, yield no real profit, but only have their use indirectly and for no very praiseworthy object—namely, that of furnishing men to be trained as sailors for the men-of-war and thereby contributing to the carrying on of war in Europe.
	And this has been done by nations who make a great ado about their piety, and who, while they are quite ready to commit injustice, would like, in their orthodoxy, to be considered among the elect.
</p>
<p>
	The intercourse, more or less close, which has been everywhere steadily increasing between the nations of the earth, has now extended so enormously that a violation of right in one part of the world is felt all over it.
	Hence the idea of a cosmopolitan right is no fantastical, high-flown notion of right, but a complement of the unwritten code of law—constitutional as well as international law—necessary for the public rights of mankind in general and thus for the realization of perpetual peace.
	For only by endeavouring to fulfil the conditions laid down by this cosmopolitan law can we flatter ourselves that we are gradually approaching that ideal.
</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
