<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	
	<title>First Section • Perpetual Peace</title>
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../style/style.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" class="section">
<h2>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="ordinal">First</span>
		<span epub:type="label">Section</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">Containing the preliminary articles for perpetual peace among states</span>
</h2>
<section id="article-1" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">1</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">No treaty of peace shall be regarded as valid, if made with the secret reservation of material for a future war</span>
</h3>
<p>
	For then it would be a mere truce, a mere suspension of hostilities, not peace.
	A peace signifies the end of all hostilities and to attach to it the epithet “eternal” is not only a verbal pleonasm, but matter of suspicion.
	The causes of a future war existing, although perhaps not yet known to the high contracting parties themselves, are entirely annihilated by the conclusion of peace, however acutely they may be ferreted out of documents in the public archives.
	There may be a mental reservation of old claims to be thought out at a future time, which are, none of them, mentioned at this stage, because both parties are too much exhausted to continue the war, while the evil intention remains of using the first favourable opportunity for further hostilities.
	Diplomacy of this kind only Jesuitical casuistry can justify: it is beneath the dignity of a ruler, just as acquiescence in such processes of reasoning is beneath the dignity of his minister, if one judges the facts as they really are.
</p>
<p>
	If, however, according to present enlightened ideas of political wisdom, the true glory of a state lies in the uninterrupted development of its power by every possible means, this judgement must certainly strike one as scholastic and pedantic.
</p>
</section>
<section id="article-2" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">2</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">No state having an independent existence—whether it be great or small—shall be acquired by another through inheritance, exchange, purchase or donation</span>
</h3>
<p>
	For a state is not a property (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">patrimonium</i>), as may be the ground on which its people are settled.
	It is a society of human beings over whom no one but itself has the right to rule and to dispose.
	Like the trunk of a tree, it has its own roots, and to graft it on to another state is to do away with its existence as a moral person, and to make of it a thing.
	Hence it is in contradiction to the idea of the original contract without which no right over a people is thinkable.
	Everyone knows to what danger the bias in favour of these modes of acquisition has brought Europe (in other parts of the world it has never been known).
	The custom of marriage between states, as if they were individuals, has survived even up to the most recent times,<a id="fn1-ref" href="#fn1" epub:type="noteref">1</a> and is regarded partly as a new kind of industry by which ascendency may be acquired through family alliances, without any expenditure of strength; partly as a device for territorial expansion.
	Moreover, the hiring out of the troops of one state to another to fight against an enemy not at war with their native country is to be reckoned in this connection; for the subjects are in this way used and abused at will as personal property.
</p>
<aside id="fn1" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 1</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn1-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>1</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		An hereditary kingdom is not a state which can be inherited by another state, but one whose sovereign power can be inherited by another physical person.
		The state then acquires a ruler, not the ruler as such (that is, one already possessing another realm) the state.
	</p>
</aside>
</section>
<section id="article-3" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">3</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">Standing armies (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">miles perpetuus</i>) shall be abolished in course of time</span>
</h3>
<p>
	For they are always threatening other states with war by appearing to be in constant readiness to fight.
	They incite the various states to outrival one another in the number of their soldiers, and to this number no limit can be set.
	Now, since owing to the sums devoted to this purpose, peace at last becomes even more oppressive than a short war, these standing armies are themselves the cause of wars of aggression, undertaken in order to get rid of this burden.
	To which we must add that the practice of hiring men to kill or to be killed seems to imply a use of them as mere machines and instruments in the hand of another (namely, the state) which cannot easily be reconciled with the right of humanity in our own person.
	The matter stands quite differently in the case of voluntary periodical military exercise on the part of citizens of the state, who thereby seek to secure themselves and their country against attack from without.
</p>
<p>
	The accumulation of treasure in a state would in the same way be regarded by other states as a menace of war, and might compel them to anticipate this by striking the first blow.
	For of the three forces, the power of arms, the power of alliance and the power of money, the last might well become the most reliable instrument of war, did not the difficulty of ascertaining the amount stand in the way.
</p>
</section>
<section id="article-4" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">4</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">No national debts shall be contracted in connection with the external affairs of the state</span>
</h3>
<p>
	This source of help is above suspicion, where assistance is sought outside or within the state, on behalf of the economic administration of the country (for instance, the improvement of the roads, the settlement and support of new colonies, the establishment of granaries to provide against seasons of scarcity, and so on).
	But, as a common weapon used by the Powers against one another, a credit system under which debts go on indefinitely increasing and are yet always assured against immediate claim (because all the creditors do not put in their claim at once) is a dangerous money power.
	This ingenious invention of a commercial people in the present century is, in other words, a treasure for the carrying on of war which may exceed the treasures of all the other states taken together, and can only be exhausted by a threatening deficiency in the taxes—an event, however, which will long be kept off by the very briskness of commerce resulting from the reaction of this system on industry and trade.
	The ease, then, with which war may be waged, coupled with the inclination of rulers towards it—an inclination which seems to be implanted in human nature—is a great obstacle in the way of perpetual peace.
	The prohibition of this system must be laid down as a preliminary article of perpetual peace, all the more necessarily because the final inevitable bankruptcy of the state in question must involve in the loss many who are innocent; and this would be a public injury to these states.
	Therefore other nations are at least justified in uniting themselves against such an one and its pretensions.
</p>
</section>
<section id="article-5" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">5</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">No state shall violently interfere with the constitution and administration of another</span>
</h3>
<p>
	For what can justify it in so doing?
	The scandal which is here presented to the subjects of another state?
	The erring state can much more serve as a warning by exemplifying the great evils which a nation draws down on itself through its own lawlessness.
	Moreover, the bad example which one free person gives another, (as <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">scandalum acceptum</i>) does no injury to the latter.
	In this connection, it is true, we cannot count the case of a state which has become split up through internal corruption into two parts, each of them representing by itself an individual state which lays claim to the whole.
	Here the yielding of assistance to one faction could on the part of a not be reckoned as interference foreign state with the constitution of another, for here anarchy prevails.
	So long, however, as the inner strife has not yet reached this stage the interference of other powers would be a violation of the rights of an independent nation which is only struggling with internal disease.
	It would therefore itself cause a scandal, and make the autonomy of all states insecure.
</p>
</section>
<section id="article-6" epub:type="subchapter" class="article">
<h3>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="label">Article</span>
		<span epub:type="ordinal">6</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">No state at war with another shall countenance such modes of hostility as would make mutual confidence impossible in a subsequent state of peace: such are the employment of assassins (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">percussores</i>) or of poisoners (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">venefici</i>), breaches of capitulation, the instigating and making use of treachery (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">perduellio</i>) in the hostile state</span>
</h3>
<p>
	These are dishonourable stratagems.
	For some kind of confidence in the disposition of the enemy must exist even in the midst of war, as otherwise peace could not be concluded, and the hostilities would pass into a war of extermination (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">bellum internecinum</i>).
	War, however, is only our wretched expedient of asserting a right by force, an expedient adopted in the state of nature, where no court of justice exists which could settle the matter in dispute.
	In circumstances like these, neither of the two parties can be called an unjust enemy, because this form of speech presupposes a legal decision: the issue of the conflict—just as in the case of the so-called judgements of God—decides on which side right is.
	Between states, however, no punitive war (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">bellum punitivum</i>) is thinkable, because between them a relation of superior and inferior does not exist.
	Whence it follows that a war of extermination, where the process of annihilation would strike both parties at once and all right as well, would bring about perpetual peace only in the great graveyard of the human race.
	Such a war then, and therefore also the use of all means which lead to it, must be absolutely forbidden.
	That the methods just mentioned do inevitably lead to this result is obvious from the fact that these infernal arts, already vile in themselves, on coming into use, are not long confined to the sphere of war.
	Take, for example, the use of spies (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">uti exploratoribus</i>).
	Here only the dishonesty of others is made use of; but vices such as these, when once encouraged, cannot in the nature of things be stamped out and would be carried over into the state of peace, where their presence would be utterly destructive to the purpose of that state.
</p>
</section>
<section id="conclusion" epub:type="conclusion">
<p>
	Although the laws stated are, objectively regarded, (<abbr lang="la" xml:lang="la">i.e.</abbr> in so far as they affect the action of rulers) purely prohibitive laws (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">leges prohibitivæ</i>), some of them (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">leges strictæ</i>) are strictly valid without regard to circumstances and urgently require to be enforced.
	Such are <abbr title="Numbers">Nos.</abbr> <a href="#article-1">1</a>, <a href="#article-5">5</a>, <a href="#article-6">6</a>.
	Others, again, (like <abbr title="Numbers">Nos.</abbr> <a href="#article-2">2</a>, <a href="#article-3">3</a>, <a href="#article-4">4</a>) although not indeed exceptions to the maxims of law, yet in respect of the practical application of these maxims allow subjectively of certain a latitude to suit particular circumstances.
	The enforcement of these <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">leges latæ</i> may be legitimately put off, so long as we do not lose sight of the ends at which they aim.
	This purpose of reform does not permit of the deferment of an act of restitution (as, for example, the restoration to certain states of freedom of which they have been deprived in the manner described in <a href="#article-2">article 2</a>) to an infinitely distant date—as Augustus used to say, to the “Greek Kalends”, a day that will never come.
	This would be to sanction non-restitution.
	Delay is permitted only with the intention that restitution should not be made too precipitately and so defeat the purpose we have in view.
	For the prohibition refers here only to the <em>mode of acquisition</em> which is to be no longer valid, and not to the <em>fact of possession</em> which, although indeed it has not the necessary title of right, yet at the time of so-called acquisition was held legal by all states, in accordance with the public opinion of the time.<a id="fn2-ref" href="#fn2" epub:type="noteref">2</a>
</p>
<aside id="fn2" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 2</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn2-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>2</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		It has been hitherto doubted, not without reason, whether there can be laws of permission (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">leges permissivæ</i>) of pure reason as well as commands (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">leges præceptivæ</i>) and prohibitions (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">leges prohibitivæ</i>).
		For law in general has a basis of objective practical necessity: permission, on the other hand, is based upon the contingency of certain actions in practice.
		It follows that a law of permission would enforce what cannot be enforced; and this would involve a contradiction, if the object of the law should be the same in both cases.
		Here, however, in the present case of a law of permission, the presupposed prohibition is aimed merely at the future manner of acquisition of a right—for example, acquisition through inheritance: the exemption from this prohibition (<abbr lang="la" xml:lang="la">i.e.</abbr> the permission) refers to the present state of possession.
		In the transition from a state of nature to the civil state, this holding of property can continue as a <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">bona fide</i>, if usurpatory, ownership, under the new social conditions, in accordance with a permission of the Law of Nature.
		Ownership of this kind, as soon as its true nature becomes known, is seen to be mere nominal possession (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">possessio putativa</i>) sanctioned by opinion and customs in a natural state of society.
		After the transition stage is passed, such modes of acquisition are likewise forbidden in the subsequently evolved civil state: and this power to remain in possession would not be admitted if the supposed acquisition had taken place in the civilized community.
		It would be bound to come to an end as an injury to the right of others, the moment its illegality became patent.
	</p>
	<p>
		I have wished here only by the way to draw the attention of teachers of the Law of Nature to the idea of a <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">lex permissiva</i> which presents itself spontaneously in any system of rational classification.
		I do so chiefly because use is often made of this concept in civil law with reference to statutes; with this difference, that the law of prohibition stands alone by itself, while permission is not, as it ought to be, introduced into that law as a limiting clause, but is thrown among the exceptions.
		Thus “this or that is forbidden”,—say, <abbr title="Numbers">Nos.</abbr> <a href="#article-1">1</a>, <a href="#article-2">2</a>, <a href="#article-3">3</a>, and so on in an infinite progression,—while permissions are only added to the law incidentally: they are not reached by the application of some principle, but only by groping about among cases which have actually occurred.
		Were this not so, qualifications would have had to be brought into the formula of laws of prohibition which would have immediately transformed them into laws of permission.
		Count von Windischgrätz, a man whose wisdom was equal to his discrimination, urged this very point in the form of a question propounded by him for a prize essay.
		One must therefore regret that this ingenious problem has been so soon neglected and left unsolved.
		For the possibility of a formula similar to those of mathematics is the sole real test of a legislation that would be consistent.
		Without this, the so-called <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">jus certum</i> will remain forever a mere pious wish: we can hare only general laws valid on the whole; no general laws possessing the universal validity which the concept law seems to demand.
	</p>
</aside>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
