<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	
	<title>First Supplement • Perpetual Peace</title>
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../style/style.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="part">
<h1>Supplements</h1>
<section epub:type="chapter" class="supplement">
<h2>
	<span class="ordinal-and-label">
		<span epub:type="ordinal">First</span>
		<span epub:type="label">Supplement</span><span class="text">: </span>
	</span>
	<span epub:type="title">Concerning the guarantee of perpetual peace</span>
</h2>
<p>
	This guarantee is given by no less a power than the great artist nature (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">natura dædala rerum</i>) in whose mechanical course is clearly exhibited a predetermined design to make harmony spring from human discord, even against the will of man.
	Now this design, although called Fate when looked upon as the compelling force of a cause, the laws of whose operation are unknown to us, is, when considered as the purpose manifested in the course of nature, called Providence,<a id="fn9-ref" href="#fn9" epub:type="noteref">9</a> as the deep-lying wisdom of a Higher Cause, directing itself towards the ultimate practical end of the human race and predetermining the course of things with a view to its realization.
	This Providence we do not, it is true, perceive in the cunning contrivances [<i lang="de" xml:lang="de">Kunstanstalten</i>] of nature; nor can we even conclude from the fact of their existence that it is there; but, as in every relation between the form of things and their final cause, we can, and must, supply the thought of a Higher Wisdom, in order that we may be able to form an idea of the possible existence of these products after the analogy of human works of art [<i lang="de" xml:lang="de">Kunsthandlungen</i>].
	The representation to ourselves of the relation and agreement of these formations of nature to the moral purpose for which they were made and which reason directly prescribes to us, is an Idea, it is true, which is in theory superfluous; but in practice it is dogmatic, and its objective reality is well established.
	Thus we see, for example, with regard to the ideal [<i lang="de" xml:lang="de">Pflichtbegriff</i>] of perpetual peace, that it is our duty to make use of the mechanism of nature for the realization of that end.
	Moreover, in a case like this where we are interested merely in the theory and not in the religious question, the use of the word “nature” is more appropriate than that of “providence”, in view of the limitations of human reason, which, in considering the relation of effects to their causes, must keep within the limits of possible experience.
	And the term “nature” is also less presumptuous than the other.
	To speak of a Providence knowable by us would be boldly to put on the wings of Icarus in order to draw near to the mystery of its unfathomable purpose.
</p>
<aside id="fn9" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 9</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn9-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>9</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		In the mechanical system of nature to which man belongs as a sentient being, there appears, as the underlying ground of its existence, a certain <em>form</em> which we cannot make intelligible to ourselves except by thinking into the physical world the idea of an end preconceived by the Author of the universe: this predetermination of nature on the part of God we generally call Divine Providence.
		In so far as this providence appears in the origin of the universe, we speak of Providence as founder of the world (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">providentia conditrix; semel jussit, semper parent.</i> Augustine).
		As it maintains the course of nature, however, according to universal laws of adaptation to preconceived ends, [<abbr lang="la" xml:lang="la">i.e.</abbr> teleological laws] we call it a ruling providence (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">providentia gubernatrix</i>).
		Further, we name it the guiding providence (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">providentia directrix</i>), as it appears in the world for special ends, which we could not foresee, but suspect only from the result.
		Finally, regarding particular events as divine purposes, we speak no longer of providence, but of dispensation (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">directio extraordinaria</i>).
		As this term, however, really suggests the idea of miracles, although the events are not spoken of by this name, the desire to fathom dispensation, as such, is a foolish presumption in men.
		For, from one single occurrence, to jump at the conclusion that there is a particular principle of efficient causes and that this event is an end and not merely the natural [<i lang="de" xml:lang="de">naturmechanische</i>] sequence of a design quite unknown to us is absurd and presumptuous, in however pious and humble a spirit we may speak of it.
		In the same way to distinguish between a universal and a particular providence when regarding it <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">materialiter</i>, in its relation to actual objects in the world (to say, for instance, that there may be, indeed, a providence for the preservation of the different species of creation, but that individuals are left to chance) is false and contradictory.
		For providence is called universal for the very reason that no single thing may be thought of as shut out from its care.
		Probably the distinction of two kinds of providence, <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">formaliter</i> or objectively considered, had reference to the manner in which its purposes are fulfilled.
		So that we have ordinary providence (<abbr lang="la" xml:lang="la">eg.</abbr> the yearly decay and awakening to new life in nature with change of season) and what we may call unusual or special providence (<abbr lang="la" xml:lang="la">eg.</abbr> the bringing of timber by ocean currents to Arctic shores where it does not grow, and where without this aid the inhabitants could not live).
		Here, although we can quite well explain the physico-mechanical cause of these phenomena—in this case, for example, the banks of the rivers in temperate countries are over-grown with trees, some of which fall into the water and are carried along, probably by the Gulf Stream—we must not overlook the teleological cause which points to the providential care of s ruling wisdom above nature.
		But the concept, commonly used in the schools of philosophy, of a co-operation on the part of the Deity or a concurrence (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">concursus</i>) in the operations going on in the world of sense, must be dropped.
		For it is, firstly, self-contradictory to couple the like and the unlike together (<i lang="la" xml:lang="la">gryphes jungere equis</i>) and to let Him who is Himself the entire cause of the changes in the universe make good any shortcomings in His own predetermining providence (which to require this must be defective) during the course of the world; for example, to say that the physician has restored the sick with the help of God—that is to say that He has been present as a support.
		For <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">causa solitaria non juvat</i>.
		God created the physician as well as his means of healing; and we must ascribe the result wholly to Him, if we will go back to the supreme First Cause which, theoretically, is beyond our comprehension.
		Or we can ascribe the result entirely to the physician, in so far as we follow up this event, as explicable in the chain of physical causes, according to the order of nature.
		Secondly, moreover, such a way of looking at this question destroys all the fixed principles by which we judge an effect.
		But, from the ethico-practical point of view which looks entirely to the transcendental side of things, the idea of a divine concurrence is quite proper and even necessary: for example, in the faith that God will make good the imperfection of our human justice, if only our feelings and intentions are sincere; and that He will do this by means beyond our comprehension, and therefore we should not slacken our efforts after what is good.
		Whence it follows, as a matter of course, that no one must attempt to explain a good action as a mere event in time by this <i lang="la" xml:lang="la">concursus</i>; for that would be to pretend a theoretical knowledge of the supersensible and hence be absurd.
	</p>
</aside>
<p>
	Before we determine the surety given by nature more exactly, we must first look at what ultimately makes this guarantee of peace necessary—the circumstances in which nature has carefully placed the actors in her great theatre.
	In the next place, we shall proceed to consider the manner in which she gives this surety.
</p>
<p>
	The provisions she has made are as follow: (1) she has taken care that men <em>can</em> live in all parts of the world; (2) she has scattered them by means of war in all directions, even into the most inhospitable regions, so that these too might be populated; (3) by this very means she has forced them to enter into relations more or less controlled by law.
	It is surely wonderful that, on the cold wastes round the Arctic Ocean, there is always to be found moss for the reindeer to scrape out from under the snow, the reindeer itself either serving as food or to draw the sledge of the Ostiak or Samoyedes.
	And salt deserts which would otherwise be left unutilized have the camel, which seems as if created for travelling in such lands.
	This evidence of design in things, however, is still more clear when we come to know that, besides the fur-clad animals of the shores of the Arctic Ocean, there are seals, walruses and whales whose flesh furnishes food and whose oil fire for the dwellers in these regions.
	But the providential care of nature excites our wonder above all, when we hear of the driftwood which is carried—whence no one knows—to these treeless shores: for without the aid of this material the natives could neither construct their craft, nor weapons, nor huts for shelter.
	Here too they have so much to do, making war against wild animals, that they live at peace with one another.
	But what drove them originally into these regions was probably nothing but war.
</p>
<p>
	Of animals, used by us as instruments of war, the horse was the first which man learned to tame and domesticate during the period of the peopling of the earth; the elephant belongs to the later period of the luxury of states already established.
	In the same way, the art of cultivating certain grasses called cereals—no longer known to us in their original form—and also the multiplication and improvement, by transplanting and grafting, of the original kinds of fruit—in Europe, probably only two species, the crab-apple and wild pear—could only originate under the conditions accompanying established states where the rights of property are assured.
	That is to say it would be after man, hitherto existing in lawless liberty, had advanced beyond the occupations of a hunter,<a id="fn10-ref" href="#fn10" epub:type="noteref">10</a> a fisherman or a shepherd to the life of a tiller of the soil, when salt and iron were discovered,—to become, perhaps, the first articles of commerce between different peoples,—and were sought far and near.
	In this way the peoples would be at first brought into peaceful relation with one another, and so come to an understanding and the enjoyment of friendly intercourse, even with their most distant neighbours.
</p>
<aside id="fn10" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 10</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn10-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>10</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		Of all modes of livelihood the life of the hunter is undoubtedly most incompatible with a civilized condition of society.
		Because, to live by hunting, families must isolate themselves from their neighbours, soon becoming estranged and spread over widely scattered forests, to be before long on terms of hostility, since each requires a great deal of space to obtain food and raiment.
	</p>
	<p>
		God’s command to Noah not to shed blood (Ⅰ. <i>Genesis</i>, ⅠⅩ. 4—6) 
	</p>
	<blockquote class="bible">
		<ol start="4">
			<li>But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.</li>
			<li>And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man’s brother will I require the life of man.</li>
			<li>Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man.</li>
		</ol>
	</blockquote>
	<p class="no-indent">
		is frequently quoted, and was afterwards—in another connection it is true—made by the baptized Jews a condition to which Christians, newly converted from heathendom, had to conform.
		<abbr lang="la" xml:lang="la">Cf.</abbr> <i>Acts</i> ⅩⅤ. 20; ⅩⅩⅠ. 25.
		This command seems originally to have been nothing else than a prohibition of the life of the hunter; for here the possibility of eating raw flesh must often occur, and,  in forbidding the one custom, we condemn the other.
	</p>
</aside>
<p>
	Now while nature provided that men could live on all parts of the earth, she also at the same time despotically willed that they <em>should</em> live everywhere on it, although against their own inclination and even although this imperative did not presuppose an idea of duty which would compel obedience to nature with the force of a moral law.
	But, to attain this end, she has chosen war.
	So we see certain peoples, widely separated, whose common descent is made evident by affinity in their languages.
	Thus, for instance, we find the Samoyedes on the Arctic Ocean, and again a people speaking a similar language on the Altai <abbr title="Mountains">Mts.</abbr>, 200 miles [<i lang="de" xml:lang="de">Meilen</i>]<a id="fn11-ref" href="#fn11" epub:type="noteref">11</a> off, between whom has pressed in a mounted tribe, war-like in character and of Mongolian origin, which has driven one branch of the race far from the other, into the most inhospitable regions where their own inclination would certainly not have carried them.<a id="fn12-ref" href="#fn12" epub:type="noteref">12</a>
	In the same way, through the intrusion of the Gothic and Sarmatian tribes, the Finns in the most northerly regions of Europe, whom we call Laplanders, have been separated by as great a distance from the Hungarians, with whose language their own is allied.
	And what but war can have brought the Esquimos to the north of America, a race quite distinct from those of that country and probably European adventurers of prehistoric times?
	And war too, nature’s method of populating the earth, must have driven the Pescherais in South America as far as Patagonia.
	War itself, however, is in need of no special stimulating cause, but seems engrafted in human nature, and is even regarded as something noble in itself to which man is inspired by the love of glory apart from motives of self-interest.
	Hence, among the savages of America as well as those of Europe in the age of chivalry, martial courage is looked upon as of great value in itself, not merely when a war is going on, as is reasonable enough, but in order that there should be war: and thus war is often entered upon merely to exhibit this quality.
	So that an intrinsic dignity is held to attach to war in itself, and even philosophers eulogise it as an ennobling, refining influence on humanity, unmindful of the Greek proverb, “War is evil, in so far as it makes more bad people than it takes away.”
</p>
<aside id="fn11" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 11</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn11-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>11</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		About 1000 English miles.
	</p>
</aside>
<aside id="fn12" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 12</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn12-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>12</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		The question might be put:—“If it is nature’s will that these Arctic shores should not remain unpopulated, what will become of their inhabitants, if, as is to be expected, at some time or other no more driftwood should be brought to them?
		For we may believe that, with the advance of civilization, the inhabitants of temperate zones will utilize better the wood which grows on the banks of their rivers, and not let it fall into the stream and so be swept away.”
		I answer: the inhabitants of the shores of the River Obi, the Yenisei, the Lena will supply them with it through trade, and take in exchange the animal produce in which the seas of Arctic shores are so rich—that is, if nature has first of all brought about peace among them.
	</p>
</aside>
<p>
	So much, then, of what nature does for her own ends with regard to the human race as members of the animal world.
	Now comes the question which touches the essential points in this design of a perpetual peace:—“What does nature do in this respect with reference to the end which man’s own reason sets before him as a duty?
	and consequently what does she do to further the realization of his moral purpose?
	How does she guarantee that what man, by the laws of freedom, ought to do and yet fails to do, he will do, without any infringement of his freedom by the compulsion of nature and that, moreover, this shall be done in accordance with the three forms of public right—constitutional or political law, international law and cosmopolitan law?”
	When I say of nature that she wills that this or that should take place, I do not mean that she imposes upon us the duty to do it—for only the free, unrestrained, practical reason can do that—but that she does it herself, whether we will or not.
	<q lang="la" xml:lang="la" title="Fate leads the willing, and pushes the unwilling. (Seneca)">Fata volentem ducunt, nolentem trahunt</q>
</p>
<ol class="numbered-paragraphs">
	<li>
		<p>
			Even if a people were not compelled through internal discord to submit to the restraint of public laws, war would bring this about, working from without.
			For, according to the contrivance of nature which we have mentioned, every people finds another tribe in its neighbourhood, pressing upon it in such a manner that it is compelled to form itself internally into a state to be able to defend itself as a power should.
			Now the republican constitution is the only one which is perfectly adapted to the rights of man, but it is also the most difficult to establish and still more to maintain.
			So generally is this recognized that people often say the members of a republican state would require to be angels, because men, with their self-seeking propensities, are not fit for a constitution of so sublime a form.
			But now nature comes to the aid of the universal, reason-derived will which, much as we honour it, is in practice powerless.
			And this she does, by means of these very self-seeking propensities, so that it only depends—and so much lies within the power of man—on a good organization of the state for their forces to be so pitted against one another, that the one may check the destructive activity of the other or neutralize its effect.
			And hence, from the standpoint of reason, the result will be the same as if both forces did not exist, and each individual is compelled to be, if not a morally good man, yet at least a good citizen.
			The problem of the formation of the state, hard as it may sound, is not insoluble, even for a race of devils, granted that they have intelligence.
			It may be put thus:—“Given a multitude of rational beings who, in a body, require general laws for their own preservation, but each of whom, as an individual, is secretly inclined to exempt himself from this restraint: how are we to order their affairs and how establish for them a constitution such that, although their private dispositions may be really antagonistic, they may yet so act as a check upon one another, that, in their public relations, the effect is the same as if they had no such evil sentiments.”
			Such a problem must be capable of solution.
			For it deals, not with the moral reformation of mankind, but only with the mechanism of nature; and the problem is to learn how this mechanism of nature can be applied to men, in order so to regulate the antagonism of conflicting interests in a people that they may even compel one another to submit to compulsory laws and thus necessarily bring about the state of peace in which laws have force.
			We can see, in states actually existing, although very imperfectly organized, that, in externals, they already approximate very nearly to what the Idea of right prescribes, although the principle of morality is certainly not the cause.
			A good political constitution, however, is not to be expected as a result of progress in morality; but rather, conversely, the good moral condition of a nation is to be looked for, as one of the first fruits of such a constitution.
			Hence the mechanism of nature, working through the self-seeking propensities of man (which of course counteract one another in their external effects), may be used by reason as a means of making way for the realization of her own purpose, the empire of right, and, as far as is in the power of the state, to promote and secure in this way internal as well as external peace.
			We may say, then, that it is the irresistible will of nature that right shall at last get the supremacy.
			What one here fails to do will be accomplished in the long run, although perhaps with much inconvenience to us.
			As Bouterwek says, <q>If you bend the reed too much it breaks: he who would do too much does nothing.</q>
		</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<p>
			The idea of international law presupposes the separate existence of a number of neighbouring and independent states; and, although such a condition of things is in itself already a state of war, (if a federative union of these nations does not prevent the outbreak of hostilities) yet, according to the Idea of reason, this is better than that all the states should be merged into one under a power which has gained the ascendency over its neighbours and gradually become a universal monarchy.
			For the wider the sphere of their jurisdiction, the more laws lose in force; and soulless despotism, when it has choked the seeds of good, at last sinks into anarchy.
			Nevertheless it is the desire of every state, or of its ruler, to attain to a permanent condition of peace in this very way; that is to say, by subjecting the whole world as far as possible to its sway.
			But nature wills it otherwise.
			She employs two means to separate nations, and prevent them from intermixing: namely, the differences of language and of religion.<a id="fn13-ref" href="#fn13" epub:type="noteref">13</a>
			These differences bring with them a tendency to mutual hatred, and furnish pretexts for waging war.
			But, none the less, with the growth of culture and the gradual advance of men to greater unanimity of principle, they lead to concord in a state of peace which, unlike the despotism we have spoken of, (the churchyard of freedom) does not arise from the weakening of all forces, but is brought into being and secured through the equilibrium of these forces in their most active rivalry.
		</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<p>
			As nature wisely separates nations which the will of each state, sanctioned even by the principles of international law, would gladly unite under its own sway by stratagem or force; in the same way, on the other hand, she unites nations whom the principle of a cosmopolitan right would not have secured against violence and war.
			And this union she brings about through an appeal to their mutual interests.
			The commercial spirit cannot co-exist with war, and sooner or later it takes possession of every nation.
			For, of all the forces which lie at the command of a state, the power of money is probably the most reliable.
			Hence states find themselves compelled—not, it is true, exactly from motives of morality—to further the noble end of peace and to avert war, by means of mediation, wherever it threatens to break out, just as if they had made a permanent league for this purpose.
			For great alliances with a view to war can, from the nature of things, only very rarely occur, and still more seldom succeed.
		</p>
	</li>
</ol>
<aside id="fn13" epub:type="footnote">
	<p class="footnote-header">
		<span class="text">Footnote 13</span>
		<span class="text">(</span><a href="#fn13-ref" epub:type="referrer"><span class="text">return to referrer </span>13</a><span class="text">):</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		Difference of religion!
		A strange expression, as if one were to speak of different kinds of morality.
		There may indeed be different historical forms of belief,—that is to say, the various means which have been used in the course of time to promote religion,—but they are mere subjects of learned investigation, and do not really lie within the sphere of religion.
		In the same way there are many religious works—the <i lang="ae-Latn" xml:lang="ae-Latn">Zendavesta</i>, <i lang="sa-Latn" xml:lang="sa-Latn">Veda</i>, <i lang="ar-Latn" xml:lang="ar-Latn">Koran</i> <abbr lang="la" xml:lang="la">etc.</abbr>—but there is only one religion, binding for all men and for all times.
		These books are each no more than the accidental mouthpiece of religion, and may be different according to differences in time and place.
	</p>
</aside>
<p>
	In this way nature guarantees the coming of perpetual peace, through the natural course of human propensities: not indeed with sufficient certainty to enable us to prophesy the future of this ideal theoretically, but yet clearly enough for practical purposes.
	And thus this guarantee of nature makes it a duty that we should labour for this end, an end which is no mere chimera.
</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
